Hi, my name is Joe Cheng.
I am the CTO of Posit,
and I'm so pleased to be here speaking with you
at R Plus AI.
Today, I'm gonna talk about how we can take LLMs
and really focus them for working with data science
and research in a way that is useful and responsible.
And when I'm talking about LLMs today,
I'm really not talking about ChatGBT,
and I'm not talking about Copilot
or any kind of coding agent.
These tools are very useful,
but I think we're all sort of accustomed to them.
We're used to their trade-offs.
And I think that one of the most interesting ways
we can think of LLMs today
is how to harness them as custom agents,
how we take this sort of underlying ability that LLMs have
and use them to our own ends in our own custom workflows.
And to that end, we've really tried to make it
as easy as possible for anyone with a background in R
to be able to harness these LLMs for their own purposes.
We have this package called Elmer
that I think is a really beautiful and elegant package,
and it is one of my favorite packages
that we've released in recent years.
And it just gives you the ability
to so easily tap into the power that LLMs have,
not just simple chat, as you can see here,
but the ability to do tool calling,
to create agentic workflows,
and to create user interfaces on top of LLMs.
Now, I'm not gonna get too far into Elmer today,
but I'd like you to take my word for it
that if you are here and you know how to write R code,
that you are ready to harness LLMs
to create advanced agents.
It really is quite easy to get started with these things.
So if we all have the ability to do this,
that doesn't answer the question of whether we should,
whether it's a good idea.
And this is a question that is very near and dear
to my heart and to the heart of Posit,
and to talk about why,
I wanna talk a little bit about where Posit comes from.
So we are a public benefit corp,
and if you are not familiar with that concept,
you can sort of think of it as being a compromise
between a for-profit company and a nonprofit organization.
So we have all of the flexibility of a for-profit company,
but we are motivated by a mission.
And as a PBC, we have to state out loud what that mission is.
And for us, this is sort of an abridged version
of the beginning of our official mission.
Our mission is to create open source software
for data science, scientific research,
and technical communication.
And I really wanna focus on this data science
and scientific research.
A lot of the use cases that are really important to us
are things like people doing academic
and scientific research,
people who are really using this stuff
for high stakes kinds of scenarios,
people who are analyzing healthcare data,
or doing drug development, deciding public policy,
environmental studies, epidemiology,
things that it's really important
that your answers are correct
or people could really get hurt.
And to kind of hammer this home,
I wanna point out this passage from a book called
Software for Data Analysis by John Chambers,
who is the creator of S, the precursor of R.
And Chambers makes this point.
He says, those who receive the results
of modern data analysis have limited opportunity
to verify the results by direct observation.
Users of the analysis have no option
but to trust the analysis and by extension,
the software that produced it.
Both the data analysts, that's probably most of you,
and the software provider, that's us
and people who write packages for R,
therefore have a strong responsibility
to produce a result that is trustworthy
and if possible, one that can be shown to be trustworthy.
This obligation I label the prime directive.
So that's how seriously John Chambers takes it
and we've adopted this prime directive as our own
from the earliest days of the company.
And one of our software engineers on the tidy models
seem really hammer this home by saying,
I'm aware that if I make a mistake,
bad things happen, death and other things.
So if we have this principle in mind
and for us, it really is, it's more than a best practice.
It's really a moral and ethical obligation
to adhere to this prime directive.
What does that mean concretely?
Like how does that translate into real concerns
as we work with data science software?
So number one, correctness is obviously paramount
at all times.
We wanna do our best to write software without bugs,
especially in the code paths that produce answers.
Secondly, transparency.
We want the methods of our analysis
to be able to be inspected
and having open source code goes a long way
towards those ends.
And third, reproducibility.
The ability for the analysis to be repeated
on the same data in the future,
hopefully producing the same results.
So these three principles of correctness,
transparency and reproducibility
are first and foremost in our minds
any time we are working on a new tool
for helping with data analysis.
And when we hold these three principles against LLMs,
this is not an obvious fit.
Like it's actually quite an obvious misfit
because when it comes to correctness,
LLMs are infamous for giving convincing but wrong answers.
They're getting better all the time,
but this phenomenon of very convincingly telling you
the wrong thing is certainly still very prevalent.
Secondly, transparency.
I mean, LLMs are the ultimate black box.
We don't really understand what they do.
We don't really understand how they do it.
And in fact, the more you understand about them,
the less what they are already capable of seems possible.
And then finally, they are kind of inherently
not reproducible.
They're inherently non-deterministic
just by virtue of the way that they work.
Some of the model providers will give you the ability
to set a random seed, and even they will warn you
that this is not fully reproducible
because the answers will still vary
based on the underlying hardware
or their software configuration.
So we inherently do not have the ability
to reproduce conversations or actions that LLMs take.
And we've all seen this in action.
Like, we've all asked LLMs things like,
draw an intricate piece of ASCII art,
and it says, here's an intricate piece of ASCII art
of a wolf, penguin.
I mean, and it's very confidently saying,
I've done this for you.
Why does it do that?
We don't really know.
And I wanna make sure you understand that my point here
is not that LLMs are bad or that they can't do things.
They can do a lot of things.
And in fact, the shape of the things that they can
and can't do is quite surprising.
I think you could intuitively imagine
that LLMs work like this,
that there is a spectrum of tasks
that they could possibly do that range from very easy,
according to some criteria or intuition, to very hard.
And you would think that the easy tasks they excel at,
and as these tasks get harder, they get worse and worse,
which is what you see here,
kind of a smooth, relatively smooth capability curve.
And that is not the world that we live in.
Today's LLMs do not reflect this kind of behavior.
In fact, it's more like this,
where there are very easy tasks that they excel at
and very easy tasks that they are terrible at
and very difficult tasks that they excel at
and very difficult tasks that they're terrible at.
And it is very, very difficult to intuit
without trying to know what category
or whether this will be inside or outside
of their capability curve
when you're thinking of a new task.
Just to take two examples, they're quite good at coding.
And I think you would think, as a human,
that coding is a pretty hard thing to do.
There's a lot of logic and reasoning.
There's a lot of nuance.
There's abstractions.
There's a lot of context that you need to hold in your head.
There's a lot of intent that needs to be inferred
from reading code.
And yet, these models are incredibly good at it.
But at the same time, the very simplest data tasks,
they are really surprisingly bad at.
And let me just give you a quick demonstration of that.
So I tried to think of,
what is the very easiest data operation that you could do?
And the one I thought of was length.
Given an array of values, how long is the array?
How many elements are in the array?
So to do this in R, we create an array of length n.
These are random floating point values between zero and one.
And then we ask, in this case, gbt 4.1,
we ask it, how long is this array?
And then we pass it those random numbers
encoded as a JSON array.
And if you pass it 10 values to its credit,
it will get it correct.
At 100, it gets it correct.
And even 1,000, it gives the correct answer.
But then at 10,000, it says 1,000.
I mean, it's not even close.
And even these are cherry-picked round numbers.
They're just powers of 10.
When I gave it 103 elements, it said there were 100.
So this is a pretty disappointing showing
that even such a fundamental operation as length,
these models are not reliable for.
In fairness, when I made this slide,
this was definitely true,
and gbt 4.1 was state-of-the-art.
With gbt 5, it takes a very long time,
but I have mostly seen it give correct answers,
and the same with opus 4.1.
So the state-of-the-art is changing,
but the fact remains that an operation
that feels like it should be simple and fundamental,
we cannot trust these LLMs.
And that does not bode well
for all the other possible data science operations,
the fundamental operations you'd wanna do.
So given these inherent challenges,
these challenges around correctness,
transparency, reproducibility,
are there responsible ways to use LLMs
in the service of data science?
Are there responsible ways that we can leverage
these kind of magical new tools?
So what I am gonna show you now
are three different approaches that we have taken.
And I wanna emphasize that these are not what I consider,
like these are principles
that everybody should be abiding by.
These are just experiments that we ran
and approaches that we kind of observed
have worked more or less well
for these different scenarios that we tried.
So this is all evolving very quickly.
Every model behaves differently.
So we are approaching this
with a spirit of experimentation and humility
and openness for each generation of LLMs
to bring us a different set of opportunities.
And I highly encourage you
to think of these approaches in that spirit.
So the first approach I wanna talk about
is to constrain these LLMs, okay?
And what that looks like is we identify some things
that these LLMs can do,
at least take a particular model that you're targeting.
And we decide, based on our empirical experience,
okay, this LLM is very, very good at this one task
or this one skill.
It is firmly inside the jagged frontier of their capability.
Then in order to make this one skill more useful,
we kind of augment the LLM
with other kinds of software we write,
like deterministic software
that kind of leverage that LLM skill
and make it more useful.
And then we instruct the LLM,
just stick to the task we are giving you,
stick to doing this thing that we've decided
that you're very good at.
And resist the urge to add features
that would pull the LLM in directions
that it's still okay at,
but maybe not quite as solidly good at.
So the example I have in mind for this
is to use an LLM to drive SQL, to drive a dashboard.
Let me show you what that looks like.
So this is a Shiny dashboard.
This is not an LLM-powered dashboard.
This is just a regular Shiny dashboard.
This is actually one of the templates for Shiny for Python.
And just like a typical Shiny application,
you can see that there are some reactive outputs,
and then there are some inputs on the side.
You know, if this was a real dashboard,
there would probably be a lot more inputs than this.
But as you change these values,
you can see that the values on the right update, okay?
So we asked ourselves,
could we leverage these LLM's abilities
to write SQL very well,
and use that to enhance our dashboard
with more capabilities?
So here we've replaced all the filters with a sidebar.
This is now written in R with Elmer and ShinyChat.
And we can ask these filtering questions
like show only male smokers who had dinner on Saturday.
And this request goes out to an LLM.
The LLM comes back with a select statement.
And that select statement is shown to the user
in two places.
And then that select statement is applied
to a data source by Shiny using reactive code.
And everything that you see down here,
this code has not changed.
It is the same reactive Shiny code.
It's just keyed off of a different reactive data frame,
one that is driven by this SQL.
This technique works with any SQL speaking database
that you can get to from R.
And what this means is that we do not have to worry
about these values being hallucinated.
We don't have to worry about this plot
or this table of numbers being hallucinated.
All we have to worry about is whether this SQL is correct.
And if you are someone who speaks SQL fluently,
then great, that's a very easy task for you.
But even if this is something that you're handing off
to say your boss who doesn't speak SQL as well,
there's a really good chance that they can either
sort of intuit by reading the SQL.
They can intuit whether it's right or wrong.
And at worst, they can take that SQL and bring it to you
and ask you to verify it.
But importantly, modern LLMs are quite good
at writing SQL, so it's very infrequent
that they make mistakes here.
And we can use this capability to achieve filtering
that we could not do.
We could not do with traditional Shiny controls.
This is a very easy thing to reproduce in normal Shiny,
that select these three criteria,
but something as simple as invert this filter
and saying the ones that we're showing now
make those the only ones we are not showing.
That is not an easy thing to do with most dashboard UIs.
There's a lot more that I could show you with this,
but in the interest of time, I want
to move on to these other points.
This approach, this LLM SQL dashboard approach
turns out to be incredibly, incredibly useful.
And I want to use this illustration
from Rick and Morty.
If you haven't seen the show, there's this one scene
where Rick, who is a scientist, he's
tinkering at the breakfast table,
and he builds this little robot.
And the robot wakes up, and it immediately
asks, what is my purpose?
And instead of answering, Rick asks the robot
to pass the butter.
And the robot brings the butter over, and Rick's very happy.
And then other things happen in this scene.
They're having conversation while the robot just
waits there.
And then when there's a pause, the robot
says, what is my purpose?
And Rick says, you pass butter.
And this poor robot goes, oh my god.
And this is sort of how I think of this scenario, where
you have this LLM that is good at a lot of things.
It has this very general capability,
this very general intelligence.
And we are really saying, you pass butter.
You do this one thing, you just write SQL,
and we do not want you to do anything else.
So this approach of massively constraining
what the model can do, is this a responsible approach?
So in this case, in terms of correctness,
we are asking it to generate SQL,
and it generally does that incredibly well.
Certainly, I would say, at a superhuman level
compared to the median, or even well
above median data analysts.
In terms of transparency, all the analysis
that you're seeing on the screen is
driven off of a SQL query that is very clearly displayed.
And in terms of reproducibility, the fact
that you can take that SQL and apply it later on,
and get the same result as long as the data has not changed,
I think that qualifies.
So this approach, we were so happy with this sort of like,
take a SQL chatbot and apply it to a shiny data dashboard.
It's worked so well that we have created an open source
package called QueryChat.
If you have a dashboard that is primarily
driven off of a single data frame,
it's so easy to drop in QueryChat
and recreate this experience for your data.
So that's the first approach, this approach of constraining.
The second approach that we're going to take
is to micromanage the model.
And in this case, we are going to have an incredibly tight,
very, very tight human AI feedback loop,
where we're asking it to do tiny steps that we are then
immediately judging to be right or wrong.
Or if it's not a matter of right or wrong,
just whether we like it or don't like the result.
And then we can correct it immediately,
and again, see the new result.
I think the idea here is that if we are micromanaging
AI this closely, then mistakes are all but guaranteed
to be caught right away.
So even if what we're asking the model to do,
it is not 100% at, it's only 85% at, that is fine.
That 15% of the time, we'll just notice, we'll correct it,
we'll help it get to the right place.
So the example I want to use here
is a tool that I vibe coded this week to tweak plots.
So believe it or not, everything I'm going to show you,
this is a shiny app.
And I think one realization that I've had using ChatGBT
over the last year is that I find using my voice
to speak to an LLM to be incredibly helpful
for reducing the friction of fast iteration
or giving a lot of information to an LLM.
So that's the approach that we're taking here.
Instead of typing into a chat box,
instead of typing into an input box,
what I would like to see happen,
I'm going to use my voice and use that
to shorten the feedback cycle here.
So I'm going to start by,
I'm going to press and hold space bar
and that'll let me speak and then I'll let go
and that'll send my command.
Let's create a plot of MT cards.
So I'm going to create a plot of MT cards.
Let's create a plot of MT cars.
Okay, great.
So you can see here it did that, it did create a plot.
That's fine, it even colored by cylinder, that's nice.
Can you make the text significantly bigger
and move the legend to the bottom?
Great, make the data points a little bit bigger as well.
All right, let's see.
I'd like to see these sort of groupings a little bit better.
Can you add a cell above to calculate the convex halls
based on the cylinders?
Okay.
Oh, great, okay.
That looks pretty good,
but let's get rid of the border of the convex hall.
Just use the fill.
All right, great.
And finally, I'm kind of colorblind.
I'm having trouble telling between these colors.
Can you pick some more colorblind friendly colors?
All right, great, I think that looks pretty good.
So you can see there that what we're doing
is so inherently...
So as you can see in this example,
this feedback loop is so tight
and I'm so on top of every little thing that it's doing
that it's sort of hard for it to get too far off track.
And in terms of an illustration for this one,
what this feels like,
this is maybe a slightly dark example,
but I think of the movie Whiplash,
this famous not quite my tempo scene.
If you haven't seen it,
J.K. Simmons plays this band director
and he's extremely, extremely exacting.
So they start playing and he says,
the equivalent of let's plot MT cars
and Miles Teller is the drummer
and he's like, aha, I did this.
This is going great.
And nope, not quite.
The scatter plot points are a little small
and okay, so he fixes that.
Not quite, the text annotations
and I want the y-axis to start at zero
and are you serious with this color palette?
And this poor model is just doing its best
to satisfy our every whim.
So this idea of we're just so on top of it,
we are just so exacting
and examining every minute detail
of what this model is creating.
So is this approach responsible?
Is this like plot tweaking tool
and having this tight feedback loop?
So in practice,
I do feel like it makes far fewer mistakes
than a human does
and the kinds of mistakes that it makes
are usually easy to catch.
For example, if it gets your factors,
it treats your factors as unordered instead of ordered.
Usually that's something that you can just sort of see
and deal with quickly.
Of course, it depends on what you're doing with this bot
but in the case of visualizations,
I think it's pretty good.
In terms of transparency,
the user is directing what's happening here
and you can see the R code
that it's generating at all times
and I think that's really important.
And finally, it's reproducible.
So like the R code that you are creating
is generally going to be able to be saved in a script
and uploaded to Git
and just all the normal ways our scripts are reproducible.
So overall, I'd say like this feels
just relatively low stakes.
We're working in such small steps
but it also helps a lot that
by focusing on data visualization
that there's a lot of subjectivity here.
It's really easy to judge the outcome.
So the third approach that I wanna talk about,
the third and final approach is deferred review.
So the idea here is that we're gonna have
a similar approach to the last one
but with like kind of a looser rein,
like a looser leash.
So we're gonna ask the AI to do things
with slightly bigger steps
for it to be taking bigger leaps without us
but still not just like going off
and doing stuff without us.
So we're still there, we're aware of what it's doing,
we're still kind of directing it,
we're aware of what kinds of questions
that it wants to answer
and we are directing it on what kinds of things to do next
but we are not closely scrutinizing
every single step in every line of code
that it's writing for errors and hallucinations.
Obviously, it needs to be decent at whatever it's doing
but we're not gonna go over the top in terms of reviewing.
So what that means is we are gonna enjoy
this like really fast movement upfront
because we're not stopping to scrutinize everything
but we are piling up sort of a review debt
along the way that we will eventually come due.
And that is usually at the latest
before you ship your work,
before you take your work
and actually put it in front of people
who might act on it
or who might misinterpret it as fully vetted analysis,
that is when you need to stop and carefully review.
I think of this as being akin to working in Git,
having your own branch
and you're kind of working through things
and you kind of clean it up and get it all ready
and have it reviewed before you merge
but you generally do that at the end.
So the agent that I wanna show you for this is DataBot.
DataBot is our exploratory data analysis agent
that we released recently
and I think it's just one of the most exciting pieces
of software that I've ever worked on.
If you have not seen DataBot,
it is an extension for Positron exclusively right now.
So you need a relatively recent version of Positron
and then you can install DataBot
by going to the extensions pane here.
You will need an Anthropic API key
or I think we can also use AWS Bedrock
and very shortly,
you'll be able to connect to other LLMs as well.
By the way, this is not currently available in RStudio
but it or something much like it
will be coming to RStudio very soon.
So I have DataBot here
and you wanna start out in a project or a folder
that you're ready to do some work.
So maybe you brought some data into this folder.
In this case, I have a CSV
but we could connect to a database also
or use Databricks or an S3 bucket or SAS data,
just anything you can do in R.
And then I'm just gonna start asking it questions
and I can ask it relatively high level questions.
I can say just like load the CSV data in this directory.
And after I give it a command,
it is going to usually either call some tools
or write some code to try to answer that question.
And in this case, it's doing both.
It is both looking at what files are available
in this directory and then it is executing some R code.
And very importantly, both the model and ourselves
as the users, we can both see this information
that's coming out of the R code.
So it looks at what happened here.
It's looking at the summary here
and it comes to these conclusions
about what kind of data is here.
And this appears to be like weather data
about various countries and their capitals, okay?
60,000 rows and 22 columns.
And then it stops and gives us four suggestions
for how to proceed.
And this is incredibly important.
If you look at these suggestions,
they're quite specific and sensitive to what just happened.
Like these are not just scripted or stock suggestions
like, do you wanna do some data quality checks?
Do you want to transform the data?
Do you wanna visualize the data?
It's asking like pretty specific questions here
like create visualizations
of temperature patterns over time.
So every interaction you have with Data Bot
is gonna be like this.
You ask a question or give it an instruction.
It will run some code.
It'll look at the results.
It will make some observations,
make some suggestions and then stop.
And it is very important that it stop
and not just run off and just answer whatever questions
it feels like leaving us behind.
Data Bot is carefully tuned to work in chunks
that feel good to a human,
that are enough for us to feel like we're making progress,
but also that we can sort of have a general handle
of what it's doing and why.
So now let's ask it like create a visualization
of temperature patterns over time.
It's looking at how many countries.
And okay, so this is temperature patterns
for all 252 countries.
This is just data from September to October of this year.
And then it's separating it out by continent.
And as before, we can see these plots
and the model can see the plot.
And then it makes some conclusions about what it sees here.
And now we've asked and answered a whole bunch of questions.
Like we've really taken it down a number
of different pathways and we've ended
with a pretty interesting,
they're pretty scrunched because of my screen resolution
here, this plot that I think is pretty interesting.
And I really don't care about everything else.
Like really, this is the conclusion
that I would really like to draw attention to.
So with data bot, I have the ability to tell it,
okay, we've done all this stuff.
You've written all this code, answered all these questions
that most of which I don't care about anymore.
Let's create a reproducible artifact
just about the thing that I do care about.
So I'll say like slash report to say,
I wanna make a quarter report.
Okay.
So what this is gonna do is create
a reproducible quarto document that takes what it's learned
during the course of this conversation
and makes a reproducible version.
Okay, so you can see here that it created this report
for us and reproduced this very nice visualization.
And we also automatically drop this warning at the top.
So this is your cue to carefully review each piece of code
and each conclusion that is found in this report.
And then you can remove that little disclaimer.
So is data bot and this approach of deferred review,
is it responsible?
It is responsible in terms of correctness
to the degree that you have the discipline and expertise
to actually go back and review the work created by the model.
In terms of transparency, I mean, there is R code.
It is telling you how it's coming to these conclusions.
But I mean, to be honest,
while you're in the thick of the exploration,
there's a lot of R code coming at you
and it's going by pretty fast.
In terms of reproducibility, I think pretty good.
This capability to generate a reproducible report for you,
I think is incredibly important.
So overall, compared to the other approaches,
this is definitely riskier.
But I will say it is so unbelievably useful
that I certainly will not be doing exploratory data analysis
without data bot or something like data bot in the future.
So this plot is showing that for each approach
that I've shown today,
along with ChatGPT's deep research mode,
what are the likelihoods that I think these approaches
are likely to make a mistake from the model?
And then on the y-axis, how likely is it
that that mistake would be overlooked by a human operator?
And based on these different points in space,
you have to decide what makes sense for you.
Where is your line in terms of what is responsible use
of LLMs and what is not?
So for example, if you work in marketing
and you are trying to optimize the click-through rates
of your mobile ads,
then maybe you would draw the line somewhere here
and anything below and to the left of the line
is acceptable risk for you.
But maybe you work in some field where lives are at stake.
Maybe you're working on nuclear power plant safety
or drug development.
Maybe in some of those cases,
your tolerance is gonna be way down here,
that none of today's tools might be good enough
for what you need.
Or on the other hand, you might be an AI influencer
on LinkedIn and then your tolerance is way out here.
So that is what I have for you today.
Thank you so much for your time and attention.
And I'd be happy to take questions if there's time.
Thank you.
Amazing.
Thank you, Joe, for putting together this talk
and thank you everyone else for being with us today.
We do have questions in the Q&A.
I'm sure you can see everything.
So why don't we just go ahead
and have you answer at your leisure.
And we have until 45 minutes after the hour,
so about eight minutes.
So let's go.
Oh, there are questions showing up here.
Okay.
Yeah, so let me first address,
first of all, thank you for having me
and thank you for your time and attention.
Let me first address the local LLM question.
So as we were developing this,
as we were developing DataBot specifically,
DataBot really emerged from specifically
Claude Sonnet's ability to not only answer questions
or your data questions,
but to be incredibly,
like just really sensitive
about what would make sense to do next.
And what we found is that using other models at the time,
really, even the frontier models
from other proprietary labs,
it fell off to the point that it really,
to me, it didn't make sense to use this tool
with another model.
I do think that that situation has changed
over the last few months.
And what we have seen is that the best,
certainly GBT-5 can do a pretty decent job,
albeit it seems to require a lot more thinking,
a lot more runtime token usage in order to do that.
But I think it seems very promising
that we should be able to make it work well
with things besides Claude.
With local models, they have gotten a lot better
over the last few months,
or at least earlier this year,
they seem to take a big leap forward.
I'm still a little bit,
I'm still waiting to see them get better still,
I think before we can in good conscience recommend them.
That said, for Positron in particular,
we have the ability to connect to any OpenAI API
compatible endpoint,
which I think somebody asked about,
like, do you have the ability to connect
to your organization's local LLMs?
So we can now say, yes, if it hasn't shipped already,
it will be shipping shortly.
I think it's already shipped
for the desktop versions of Positron
and should be coming out for Workbench shortly.
And maybe it's something you have to search
for how to enable it.
So I think this does give you the ability
to connect to a lot of different kinds of models.
But I continue to think that today,
you're not likely to have an awesome experience
unless you're connecting to one of the Cloud models.
Actually, Cloud SONNET or Cloud HYCU
are both really excellent.
And I think partially for these kinds of advanced agents,
there's more tailoring to a specific model
than you would think.
A lot of what we do,
like it's almost like we're trying to fit
a custom suit onto this body.
And then everybody's asking,
can I just swap this out for a totally different body?
And it's really difficult
because we have so carefully measured
and tweaked and tucked
so that it fits just well with this model.
So I can't really guarantee that you'll get good results
if you use it with something else.
I'll also say that as this moves to RStudio,
we are re-examining some of these assumptions
and even our business model of like,
how does this fit into our larger business?
So, part of what we would like to be able to do
is to have you get your AI token generators from us
and not have to worry too much
about what exact model is behind the scenes.
Granted, that'll be a big problem for a lot of companies.
One more, just to say one more thing about this topic
and then I'll move on to the other questions.
A lot of people have said to me,
my company doesn't let me use anything but local LLMs.
That was much more true a year ago than it is today.
I think in the time since people have realized,
even your IT security people have realized,
we cannot deprive ourselves of these proprietary models,
even if we have to be HIPAA compliant,
even if we're dealing with sensitive data.
So, all the cloud providers now have LLMs
that are zero data retention.
They don't train, they don't learn about your topic.
They're just completely, they have the same data guarantees
as anything else running on AWS or on Azure.
Microsoft has had that all along.
Yes, yeah.
So, I think all these cloud providers
have had that all along,
but what has changed over the last year
is that a lot of companies have realized that.
So, instead of insisting on local models,
they are telling their employees like Bedrock is fine,
Azure AI is fine, Vertex APIs are fine.
Okay, I hope that helps.
Okay, so Paul in Chicago asks,
aside from pure data science,
I'm wondering how Joe uses AI in his software engineering,
if at all, seeing his examples would be highly instructive.
Absolutely.
I was very resistant to this at first.
Well, not resistant to trying it,
but like I definitely was rooting against these tools,
partially because I've spent almost 30 years as a programmer
and it's a big part of my identity
and I really love programming
and it makes me feel smart and special.
And for that to be kind of outsourced to a machine
super bums me out.
That being said, the tools have gotten better and better.
I use them all the time.
And I think these days,
I will probably 50% of the time
try something with cloud code first
and 50% of the time just start typing.
And I'm trying to increase the amount of time
that I turn to cloud code first,
because it really is.
That second demo, the voice one,
was entirely written by cloud code.
I mean, I had to be there.
There were a lot of things that it wanted to do
that I had to steer it back into the right direction,
but I did not write a single line of that code.
And that was like a shiny app
and looked nothing like a shiny app.
It had all of the Jupyter Notebook keyboard shortcuts.
And I mean, it was just astonishing
what they're able to do today.
So I highly encourage you,
if you can't get access to some of these
agentic coding tools at work,
then it's worth it to play with them on your own time.
Just this is the future.
At least human plus AI is the future.
I really hope that it stops there
and doesn't just become like AIs are just the future
and we don't do any more coding,
but at least human plus AI is the future.
And then Khaled asked about local LLMs.
Hopefully I answered that.
Jonathan Burns,
oh, our security team won't approve anything
that isn't in stable release.
I'm having the same problem with positron assistant.
Honestly, your security team,
if they're that conservative,
they really probably should not be approving
these kinds of agents anyway.
You are talking about giving an LLM
the ability to run arbitrary commands on your computer,
write arbitrary code and execute it.
Those are just the facts.
So like they should be scared, you know?
So if they are,
if you think that they're, you know,
we can cut the onion thinner than that
or whatever the expression is, please reach out.
You can email me at joe at posit.co
and I'd be happy to have a conversation about this.
Does data bot support coding with Stan and R?
You could try it.
I imagine the answer is yes,
but I will say data bot is specifically designed
for exploratory data analysis.
And that I would encourage you to use positron assistant
or even cloud code for doing other kinds of coding.
Local speech.
I'm sorry, Terry, are you gonna cut me off
when we're at time?
Well, it's probably gonna cut you off in a little bit,
but just to let everybody else know
that the next presentation will be beginning quite soon.
So it's basically just to let everybody know
that the next one will start automatically at 7.50.
Okay, thanks.
Great, I'll just keep talking.
Sharon, I got this.
Sharon asked about local speech text in ShinyChat
and when it might be available for Windows and Mac.
I vibe coded this last week.
I do think it's an extremely promising approach,
but I have not talked to any of the Shiny developers
about this just yet,
but I will definitely do that this week.
I really believe in speech to text.
I think it's kind of slept on today,
but we're all gonna realize just how much faster
and more fluid it is to speak to these models
for a lot of cases.
I'm curious how data privacy factors
into your criteria of responsible use.
I've heard some concerns about open AI sharing info.
You should be concerned about open AI sharing info
unless you have an enterprise agreement with them
that has zero data retention.
That being said, it's very easy
to get a zero data retention agreement
for all of the major providers.
And they have a lot to lose
if you are under that kind of regime with them
and they leak your information.
So I think it's important to know
what the data privacy policies are
of the models that you're connecting to.
But if you're on Bedrock, if you're on Azure AI,
I believe that they default to no data retained.
So I think that the data privacy issue
is far overblown these days.
Does DataBot allow you to pass in additional skills?
Yes, you can put a .md on disk.
You can just tell it to look at it
and the same for Positron Assistant.
Okay, looks like we got through them all.
We got through them all.
Thank you so much.
This was amazing presentation
and had me laughing so hard at different times
and an amazing explanation
and amazing answering all the questions.
Thank you so much, Joe, for being our keynote here
at our very first inaugural RNAI event.
We're just so excited and looking forward
to what you and Posit bring to us
over the next year as well.
Thanks so much.
Thank you so much.
Bye-bye.